# Lithium Projects

#### Previously updated July 25, 2024 4:01pm by David
#### Last updated July 25, 2024 4:07pm by David

## Projects

We are collaborating with Professor Geert and Dr Hamid on two separate projects with the end goal of forecasting the spot price of lithium, specifically lithium carboante: 

Professor Geert is attempting this via 3 different methods: 
1. Due to the market inefficiency of the lithium market, we may forecast the future price of lithium directly using its historical price 
Progress: Xiaolong (previous intern) did several AR(1) and AR(2) models. David (current intern) is continuing his work with new AR(1), AR(2) models and he is exploring ARMA, non-linear AR models and indicator function models. 

2. Use lithium mining company stock returns to optimise a portfolio that can best predict lithium prices
Progress: Birdy (previous intern) did a lot of work that produced decent results. Emma and Rishabh (current interns) are continuing her work. Awaiting reply from Professor Geert in order to continue. 

3. Analyse news data (such as the tone) relating to lithium to create a predictor
Progress: Eli (current intern) 

Dr Hamid wants to create a critical minerals index to track the price of the raw materials required to create a standard EV lithium-ion battery by factoring in market share of various lithium-ion batteries, spot prices of required minerals, and how much of each mineral is required to make the various batteries. As of July 10, 2024, this index has been created and is under review. 

## Most recent files

### Last updated July 25, 2024
[Task 1:](_task_1-geert) Xiaolong's work on AR models is priceless. David is continuing his work with other models, such as ARMA, as requested by the professor. 

### Last updated July 10, 2024
[Task 2:](_task_2-geert) Birdy's work is still the most recent. We need to understand and either utilise it or use it as inspiration to re-create it. 

### Last updated July 10, 2024
[Task 3:](_task_3-geert) This is just a sample, produced by Eli (Yile). Once we have data from the data science team, we can do more comprehensive analysis.

### Last updated July 25, 2024
[Critical Mineral Index:](_critical_minerals_index-hamid) Includes the code and the dashboard for the critical minerals index. Dashboard is using downloaded data from the code that generals the battery minerals index.  Future work intends to have the dashboard use data generated by the code directly. 

## Professor Geert's lithium price forecasting project

### Team members and progress

1. David: Digested [Xiaolong's previous work](lithium_price_forecasting-xiaolong) and completed [in-sample new AR(1), AR(2), non-linear AR(2), ARMA models](lithium_price_forecasting_task_1-david). Professor indicated some problem with notation and results, David is fixing and validating code. 

2. Emma, Rashibh: Re-running Birdy's old code on updated company list while awaiting professor's instructions. Previous team of interns completed report on Birdy's past progress located in this [folder](task_2-birdy) that has made plenty of progress identyfing the list of companies we are working with, getting their stock data, standardizing currency, etc. and this [folder](lithium_modeling-birdy) which seems to model the price of lithium via the work Birdy did on the mining companies. [Report is here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1myFQFSVuQ_tHTvWgkNcGBxey5LqDplX-aIeF9RMK_8U/edit). Digested Birdy's previous work on Mining Company Regression. Tidying up and Updating code 3 for [time-series-regression] in this [folder](task_2-birdy). Applying updated codes to run the regression for the new company lists.

3. Eli: completed EDA on news data from 2019 filtered for 'lithium' in URL. David will email professor the results shortly. 

## Dr Hamid's critical minerals index project:

David: Completed [battery minerals index](critical_minerals_index-david). Dr Hamid wants to build a model that forecasts the demand of lithium, and compare with IEA, etc. reports. 

Leo: Created a [dashboard](critical_minerals_index_dashboard-leo/LeoWang-Critical_Minerals_Dashboard) and is adding it for presentation.

Note: old files created by previous interns can be found [here](old_files). The most useful ones for reference are all the analysis done on lithium news. 

## FMF Project  - Update data till Present 

This is the folder with analysis +data, including work done by Leo Cui on FMF and Power point 

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1lnzT_3ikOJA6I83e94gFmqXNFrK0fiou

Power Point with output and analysis is here

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1owoTnsErIuZO83w8kjulZx77uKrHKP4AH14Vhp9yCIs/edit?usp=sharing








